Welcome to the sixth module
of our Motion Planning course.
In this module, we'll
introduce you to
some of the concepts
required for you
to take a kinematic bicycle model
and build a reactive
motion planner from it.
A reactive motion
planner is one that
takes in local information from
the robot's surroundings in order
to generate a trajectory that
is collision-free and makes
progress towards
some goal location.
We'll stick to static
environments in
this module as a first step
on our way to planning behaviors
and paths for self-driving cars.
We'll also introduce
the concepts of
path prediction and collision
checking as we go along.
In this video,
we'll be discussing
how to generate trajectories in
a discrete setting for a sequence
of control inputs
to our robot model.
By the end of this video,
you should understand
the difference between
a kinematic and dynamic motion
model and you should have
a firm grasp of
the bicycle model that we
introduced in course one.
In addition, you should be able
to generate trajectories from
control inputs for our bicycle
model. Let's get started.
First, we want to do
a brief review of what
a kinematic model is.
A kinematic model gives the
equations of motion for
our robot while disregarding
the impacts of mass and
inertia on its motion.
We can contrast this with
a dynamic model
which instead takes
mass and inertia into
consideration at the cost
of being more complex.
Kinematic models focus on linear
and angular velocities
and occasionally,
their derivatives as inputs,
whereas dynamic models focus on
forces and torques as inputs.
To illustrate this, we have
a kinematic particle model
contrasted with
the dynamic particle model
with friction shown here.
For path planning and
trajectory optimization,
we often focus on
kinematic models to
make the motion planning problem
more computationally
tractable and leave
the issues raised
by the simplification of
the dynamics to the controller.
To give a concrete example,
here we have the equations of
motion for a bicycle model
of our robot which you should
recall from course one.
What do these equations mean?
Essentially, we define
the base link of the robot as
being in the position xy in
a fixed coordinate frame.
We also take the heading
of the robot
to be Theta relative
to the x-axis.
Taking these together, the
xy position along with
the heading Theta gives us
the state of the robot
at any point.
For the bicycle model,
the inputs given at each point in
time are the velocity
and the steering angle.
These inputs along
with the current state
are what allow us
to calculate how
a trajectory will
evolve with time
according to the bicycle model
kinematic equations.
One thing to take away
from this is that we often
do not have direct access
to the state of the robot.
We cannot tell the robot
directly to go
to a specific position
in x and y.
We can however, devise
a sequence of control inputs,
u sub n that will
allow us to reach said
xy position according to
the kinematic equations.
The sequence of
control inputs will
correspond to a trajectory
that the robot will follow.
Now that we've seen an example of
some kinematic equations,
you might be asking,
"How do we actually calculate
a trajectory for
a given sequence of inputs?"
The kinematic
equations we've given
you essentially amount to
a system of continuous time
differential equations.
For trajectory
generation purposes,
we'll be focusing on
the discrete analog of
these equations as
discussed in course one.
By focusing on
the discrete model,
it allows us to easily
and efficiently propagate
trajectories for a given
sequence of control inputs.
Many methods exist
for discretizing
continuous time differential
equations and we use
a simple zero-order hold
here and have provided you
with additional resources in
the supplemental materials
if you'd like to see more.
A consequence of
the discretization
of these equations is that we can
implement the sum over all of
the updates in
the sequence recursively,
which allows us to build up
the full trajectory iteratively
for a given sequence of inputs.
This saves in
computational effort
because rather than recomputing
a sum over all previous updates
for each point in the trajectory,
we can incrementally
compute the next point of
the trajectory using only the
previously computed point.
This is shown as
the final right-hand side
for each of the state
variable equations.
We will be using
this recursive solution
throughout this module.
If we now apply
this discretization and
step through an entire
control input sequence,
we will get an
accurate approximation
of the trajectory that
the robot will follow.
While this is useful for
trajectory planning,
it is also useful for
motion prediction,
where we know
a kinematic model of
a different agent in
the driving scenario
and we have an educated guess
on the control inputs
they will take.
From this, we can estimate
their future trajectory
which can help us
plan our motion to
avoid collisions.
As an example, suppose we take
a constant velocity
input as well as
a constant steering angle
to our bicycle model.
As shown here in the animation,
this results in the robot
traversing the arc with
constant speed while it's heading
slowly changes with
each time step.
If we instead vary
the steering angle
along the path according
to some steering function,
we can perform
more complex maneuvers,
which are critical for such
tasks as obstacle avoidance.
This is essentially the crux
of the local planning problem,
calculating the
required control inputs
to safely navigate to
a given goal point.
In the animation, we can
see that driving with
a constant steering
angle as we did
before would result
in a collision.
To remedy this, we have given
the robot a sequence of
different steering angle inputs
in order to avoid the obstacle.
We're now ready to
start planning paths
through environments
with obstacles.
In this video, we reviewed
the difference between
kinematic and dynamic models as
well as the bicycle model
that we introduced in course one.
From there, we discussed how to
compute trajectories
for a given model
and set of control inputs using
our trajectory
propagation algorithm.
This algorithm will come
in handy when we develop
the rest of our motion planner
in this module.
Hopefully, this video
has given you
some insight on how to take
a robot's kinematic
model and generate
a trajectory for it
given arbitrary inputs.
In our next video,
we will discuss some
efficient collision checking
methods that we can use
when evaluating
different plan paths
for safety. See you there.